---
title: 6 Ways To Rebuild Trust In A Relationship
description:
  Strong relationships are built on trust, but it can easily be broken if people
  do not make an active effort to maintain that trust. Events or Incidents that
  can destroy trust include...
author: Example
date: 2021-08-22T18:41:19.400Z
tags:
  - post
image: /assets/blog/green_lumber_rebuild_trust_1600-900.jpg
imageAlt: Image
layout: article.njk
---

Strong relationships are built on trust, but it can easily be broken if people
do not make an active effort to maintain that trust. Events or Incidents that
can destroy trust include:

- Infidelity
- Financial issues or disputes
- Poor communication
- Disloyalty or betrayal
- Dishonesty or deceitfulness

These types of issues can have a negative impact on a partner’s sense of
security, safety, self-esteem, or confidence. Additionally, trust can be broken
if significant needs or expectations in a relationship are not met. This is
especially problematic if expectations are not properly communicated and agreed
upon at the beginning of the relationship. This holds true for both platonic as
well as romantic relationships. Regardless of the situation that leads to
mistrust, there are a number of ways that trust can be rebuilt and maintained if
both parties are willing to work toward it. The following strategies can help
build or rebuild relationships that are based on trust.



## 1. OFFER AN HONEST APOLOGY

One of the first steps to rebuilding trust is admitting to one’s mistakes and
offering a sincere apology. This reflects humility that shows a willingness to
address weaknesses. It also demonstrates remorse and a strong desire to repair
the relationship. In addition, a true apology may not always come from words
that are said, but may also involve a moving gesture, multiple conversations, or
even lifestyle changes. After apologizing, it is also important to give the
slighted friend or partner time to process the apology.



## 2. BE WILLING TO WORK ON THE RELATIONSHIP

After offering a heartfelt apology, make an active effort to work on rebuilding
the relationship. Of course, the friend or partner whose trust was violated also
needs to be willing to forgive the offense so as to renew a healthy social
connection. In other words, both parties need to agree to take the steps that
will be necessary to reconstruct a trustworthy relationship. Another crucial
step toward moving forward involves working together to set reasonable, mutual
expectations to help both individuals avoid crossing the line in the future.
Teamwork is the key to re-establishing trust.



## 3. GIVE EACH OTHER TIME FOR REFLECTION

When a man wants to restore confidence between himself and his partner or
friend, both individuals should set aside personal time to reflect about the
experience. This involves giving one another space to begin to heal emotionally.
Most importantly, the offender should take time to reflect on what factors may
have led to the act that destroyed the trust. Self-reflection is one of the best
ways to avoid making the same types of mistakes repeatedly. Fully assessing the
situation is also a beneficial way to learn from the experience.



## 4. FIND WAYS TO CREATE NEW MEMORIES THAT SOLIDIFY A POWERFUL BOND

Another key strategy that helps re-establish trust involves spending time
together to create new, positive experiences that will become pleasant memories.
This helps by reminding them about the good times they previously shared and
instills hope for better times to come. Creating pleasant, new memories also
helps people reconnect by reminding them that they can still interact in a
healthy, trusting manner. Need a little help to jumpstart your energy for that
relationship-building? [It's time for some Green Lumber](http://greenlumber.com/pages/buy-now "Buy Now").



## 5. DEMONSTRATE TRUSTWORTHINESS  

Although some men may be quick to trust, once that trust has been broken it
usually takes time to rebuild it. However, if both individuals make the decision
to move forward, the person who caused the mistrust has to honor commitments
that have been established by remaining true to their word. In such cases, it is
important to avoid making promises that can’t be kept such as offering to call
or text at specific times. Promising to make major lifestyle changes such as
quitting a job, no longer speaking to certain people, or taking on substantial
financial responsibilities may also become problematic, especially if such
promises are made during an emotionally-charged exchange.

Small commitments such as promising to be honest in the future or communicating
one’s apprehensions more frequently are more reasonable types of promises that
are easier to keep. Making an unreasonable commitment and then inadvertently
breaking it can lead to an irreparable loss of trust.

Commitments and expectations that friends or couples make need to be realistic.
People will always make mistakes, but it is easier to forgive small,
unintentional slip ups. In addition, accidental mishaps do not usually result in
mistrust, especially when open, honest communication between both parties is
maintained.

It is important to remember that trust is built on consistency. Relying on the
body's natural cues, relaying emotions in a sincere, heartfelt manner, and
showing vulnerability are also key ways to build or rebuild trust.



## 6. FOLLOW THE BODY’S NATURAL INSTINCTS 

The body produces natural chemicals that help control certain human emotions
that foster trust, trustworthiness, social connections, and intimacy. This means
that people are wired for positive social interactions that encourage
trust. Therefore, trust is an innate desire that compels people to give into to
this emotion.

Many men may subconsciously disregard the role that trust plays when they are
choosing their friends or partners, but the body's physical and chemical makeup
causes the act of trusting someone to become routine, reflexive behavior.
Accordingly, a man's friend or partner has to engage in significantly damaging
behavior to lose a man's trust. Similarly, a man who betrays, deceives, or
seriously hurts another person can also easily lose trust that is so freely
given by others due to human nature.

Men may also try to hide their feelings at times, assuming that divulging too
much may be viewed as a sign of weakness, but the body responds positively to
vulnerability due to chemicals and mental processes that encourage social
closeness. Therefore, honesty is the best remedy for strong friendships or
romantic relationships. As long as both parties remember that rebuilding trust
is an ongoing process, they will reap the rewards of a healthy relationship for
years to come.
